docs/web-ui-v1-performance-checklist.md, before:

# Web UI v1 Performance Checklist

## Hard performance limits (release blocking, including visual enhancements)

These limits apply to every PR touching `apps/web/app/dashboard/**`, `apps/web/app/trade/**`, or shared UI/data hooks that impact those routes, including visual-only enhancements (motion, styling, layout polish, chart skinning, typography, and animation tweaks).

| Metric                                                   | `/dashboard` hard limit | `/trade/[symbol]` hard limit | Notes                                                                                           |
| -------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------: | ---------------------------: | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Initial route JS (gzip)                                  |           **<= 220 KB** |                **<= 240 KB** | From Next.js production build output; includes only initial route payload.                      |
| Hydration complete (cold load, Fast 3G + 4x CPU)         |            **<= 2.1 s** |                 **<= 2.4 s** | Re-baselined after server-shell route split; measured as hydration end marker from route start. |
| TTI (cold load, Fast 3G + 4x CPU)                        |            **<= 3.0 s** |                 **<= 3.3 s** | Re-baselined after server-shell route split; Lighthouse/DevTools timing.                        |
| Update latency: price tick response->paint               |           **<= 350 ms** |                **<= 350 ms** | Server response complete to visible UI paint.                                                   |
| Update latency: orders/positions refresh response->paint |           **<= 500 ms** |                **<= 500 ms** | For active polling or manual refresh paths.                                                     |
| Update latency: toast/error response->paint              |           **<= 250 ms** |                **<= 250 ms** | Includes validation + API error surfaces.                                                       |
| FPS floor during 30s active updates + scroll             |           **>= 55 FPS** |                **>= 55 FPS** | No repeated long-jank streaks (>200 ms).                                                        |

Additional chunk limits:

- Secondary dashboard panels chunk (lazy loaded): **<= 45 KB (gzip)**.
- Any newly introduced route chunk: **<= 60 KB (gzip)** unless explicitly exempted with approval.

## Implementation checklist

- [ ] Route-level lazy loading is enabled for non-critical/secondary surfaces.
- [ ] Secondary dashboard context panels are split into a deferred chunk.
- [ ] Primary dashboard and trade surfaces are skeleton-first during initial load.
- [ ] Route shells (headers, panel chrome, static scaffolding) render on the server.
- [ ] Only high-frequency interactive widgets hydrate on the client.
- [ ] Spinners/"Loading..." placeholders are not used on primary above-the-fold panels.
- [ ] Expensive row/cell render paths are memoized.
- [ ] Callback and derived-model props are stabilized (e.g., `useCallback`/`useMemo`) to prevent prop churn.
- [ ] Visual changes explicitly verify no FPS-floor or update-latency regressions versus the previous baseline row.

## Measurement method (must be recorded in PR)

### 1) Build analysis + route/chunk size checks

1. Install and build:
   ```bash
   pnpm --filter @hyperliquid/web build
   ```
2. Record generated route sizes from Next.js build output.
3. Pass criteria:
   - Initial JS for `/dashboard` and `/trade/[symbol]` stays within hard limits.
   - Deferred secondary chunk exists and is not part of initial route payload.

### 2) Hydration + TTI audit

1. Run production server:
   ```bash
   pnpm --filter @hyperliquid/web start
   ```
2. Measure hydration complete and TTI for each route with Chrome DevTools/Lighthouse under Fast 3G + 4x CPU:
   ```bash
   npx lighthouse http://localhost:3000/dashboard --preset=desktop
   npx lighthouse http://localhost:3000/trade/BTC --preset=desktop
   ```
3. Pass criteria:
   - Hydration and TTI at or under route hard limits.

### 3) FPS + jank checks in DevTools Performance

1. Open route, start recording in **Performance** panel.
2. Let polling updates run for at least 30 seconds and scroll orders/positions.
3. Pass criteria:
   - Frame chart sustains >= 55 FPS most of the run.
   - No repeated long tasks causing visible stutter.

### 4) Comparative visual-upgrade metrics (required for visual PRs)

1. For any visual/UI enhancement, capture **before** (base branch) and **after** (PR branch) runs for both `/dashboard` and `/trade/[symbol]`.
2. Record route-level FPS floor and p95 update latency for both routes in this file's trend table row, including artifact links (trace, Lighthouse report, screen capture notes).
3. Pass criteria:
   - No regression beyond hard limits.
   - Any measurable regression must include explicit approval from product + engineering owners before merge.

### 5) Update-latency sampling

1. In DevTools, mark network response completion for prices/orders/positions.
2. Correlate with first paint of updated value in the panel.
3. Pass criteria:
   - Price paint <= 350 ms from response completion.
   - Orders/positions paint <= 500 ms.
   - Error/toast paint <= 250 ms.

## Regression and merge gate

- Any hard-limit miss is a **merge blocker**.
- Any visual change that breaches route FPS/update-latency thresholds is **stop-ship** until remediated or explicitly approved.
- Any measurable regression vs the latest row in the trend table requires explicit approval (link to issue/comment/decision record) before merge.
- Required approvers for justified regressions: engineering owner + product/design owner (both must be named in the linked approval artifact).
- "No approval link" + "regression present" is a CI failure condition.
- CI also fails UI PRs that do not append a new trend-table row in this file and link that row in the PR template.

## Visual PR enforcement (apps/web)

For **every visual PR** that touches `apps/web/**` (including style-only, animation, spacing, typography, chart skinning, and panel chrome updates), the following are mandatory:

1. Run route-level checks for **both** `/dashboard` and `/trade/[symbol]` using the hard thresholds in this checklist.
2. Verify update smoothness under the active polling cadence (prices + orders/positions) and confirm no visible jitter in primary panels.
3. If a visual choice regresses responsiveness or introduces jitter, simplify or remove that visual treatment in the **same PR** (no deferrals).
4. Append the measured outcome to the running trend table below before merge and link that row in the PR description.

## Running trend table (append one row per PR slice)

Use this table to catch cumulative bloat and regressions across slices. Every UI PR must append a new row (do not overwrite history).

| PR               | Slice                                                   | `/dashboard` JS (KB) | `/trade/[symbol]` JS (KB) | Dashboard hydration (s) | Trade hydration (s) | Dashboard TTI (s) |  Trade TTI (s) | Dashboard update latency p95 (ms) | Trade update latency p95 (ms) | Dashboard FPS floor |     Trade FPS floor | Regression vs previous? | Approval link (if regressed) | Measurement method + artifacts                            |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------: | ------------------------: | ----------------------: | ------------------: | ----------------: | -------------: | --------------------------------: | ----------------------------: | ------------------: | ------------------: | ----------------------- | ---------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| _TBD (next PR)_  | _TBD_                                                   |               _fill_ |                    _fill_ |                  _fill_ |              _fill_ |            _fill_ |         _fill_ |               _before/after fill_ |           _before/after fill_ | _before/after fill_ | _before/after fill_ | _yes/no_                | _required if yes_            | _build log + perf trace/lighthouse links for both routes_ |
| _current branch_ | Server-shell refactor (`/dashboard`, `/trade/[symbol]`) |            _pending_ |                 _pending_ |          **2.1 target** |      **2.4 target** |    **3.0 target** | **3.3 target** |                         _pending_ |                     _pending_ |           _pending_ |           _pending_ | no                      | n/a                          | targets re-baselined with this refactor                   |

Commit message:

Add signature motif and semantic status icon pass

docs/web-ui-v1-performance-checklist.md, after:

# Web UI v1 Performance Checklist

## Hard performance limits (release blocking, including visual enhancements)

These limits apply to every PR touching `apps/web/app/dashboard/**`, `apps/web/app/trade/**`, or shared UI/data hooks that impact those routes, including visual-only enhancements (motion, styling, layout polish, chart skinning, typography, and animation tweaks).

| Metric                                                   | `/dashboard` hard limit | `/trade/[symbol]` hard limit | Notes                                                                                           |
| -------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------: | ---------------------------: | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Initial route JS (gzip)                                  |           **<= 220 KB** |                **<= 240 KB** | From Next.js production build output; includes only initial route payload.                      |
| Hydration complete (cold load, Fast 3G + 4x CPU)         |            **<= 2.1 s** |                 **<= 2.4 s** | Re-baselined after server-shell route split; measured as hydration end marker from route start. |
| TTI (cold load, Fast 3G + 4x CPU)                        |            **<= 3.0 s** |                 **<= 3.3 s** | Re-baselined after server-shell route split; Lighthouse/DevTools timing.                        |
| Update latency: price tick response->paint               |           **<= 350 ms** |                **<= 350 ms** | Server response complete to visible UI paint.                                                   |
| Update latency: orders/positions refresh response->paint |           **<= 500 ms** |                **<= 500 ms** | For active polling or manual refresh paths.                                                     |
| Update latency: toast/error response->paint              |           **<= 250 ms** |                **<= 250 ms** | Includes validation + API error surfaces.                                                       |
| FPS floor during 30s active updates + scroll             |           **>= 55 FPS** |                **>= 55 FPS** | No repeated long-jank streaks (>200 ms).                                                        |

Additional chunk limits:

- Secondary dashboard panels chunk (lazy loaded): **<= 45 KB (gzip)**.
- Any newly introduced route chunk: **<= 60 KB (gzip)** unless explicitly exempted with approval.

## Implementation checklist

- [ ] Route-level lazy loading is enabled for non-critical/secondary surfaces.
- [ ] Secondary dashboard context panels are split into a deferred chunk.
- [ ] Primary dashboard and trade surfaces are skeleton-first during initial load.
- [ ] Route shells (headers, panel chrome, static scaffolding) render on the server.
- [ ] Only high-frequency interactive widgets hydrate on the client.
- [ ] Spinners/"Loading..." placeholders are not used on primary above-the-fold panels.
- [ ] Expensive row/cell render paths are memoized.
- [ ] Callback and derived-model props are stabilized (e.g., `useCallback`/`useMemo`) to prevent prop churn.
- [ ] Visual changes explicitly verify no FPS-floor or update-latency regressions versus the previous baseline row.

## Measurement method (must be recorded in PR)

### 1) Build analysis + route/chunk size checks

1. Install and build:
   ```bash
   pnpm --filter @hyperliquid/web build
   ```
2. Record generated route sizes from Next.js build output.
3. Pass criteria:
   - Initial JS for `/dashboard` and `/trade/[symbol]` stays within hard limits.
   - Deferred secondary chunk exists and is not part of initial route payload.

### 2) Hydration + TTI audit

1. Run production server:
   ```bash
   pnpm --filter @hyperliquid/web start
   ```
2. Measure hydration complete and TTI for each route with Chrome DevTools/Lighthouse under Fast 3G + 4x CPU:
   ```bash
   npx lighthouse http://localhost:3000/dashboard --preset=desktop
   npx lighthouse http://localhost:3000/trade/BTC --preset=desktop
   ```
3. Pass criteria:
   - Hydration and TTI at or under route hard limits.

### 3) FPS + jank checks in DevTools Performance

1. Open route, start recording in **Performance** panel.
2. Let polling updates run for at least 30 seconds and scroll orders/positions.
3. Pass criteria:
   - Frame chart sustains >= 55 FPS most of the run.
   - No repeated long tasks causing visible stutter.

### 4) Comparative visual-upgrade metrics (required for visual PRs)

1. For any visual/UI enhancement, capture **before** (base branch) and **after** (PR branch) runs for both `/dashboard` and `/trade/[symbol]`.
2. Record route-level FPS floor and p95 update latency for both routes in this file's trend table row, including artifact links (trace, Lighthouse report, screen capture notes).
3. Pass criteria:
   - No regression beyond hard limits.
   - Any measurable regression must include explicit approval from product + engineering owners before merge.

### 5) Update-latency sampling

1. In DevTools, mark network response completion for prices/orders/positions.
2. Correlate with first paint of updated value in the panel.
3. Pass criteria:
   - Price paint <= 350 ms from response completion.
   - Orders/positions paint <= 500 ms.
   - Error/toast paint <= 250 ms.

## Regression and merge gate

- Any hard-limit miss is a **merge blocker**.
- Any visual change that breaches route FPS/update-latency thresholds is **stop-ship** until remediated or explicitly approved.
- Any measurable regression vs the latest row in the trend table requires explicit approval (link to issue/comment/decision record) before merge.
- Required approvers for justified regressions: engineering owner + product/design owner (both must be named in the linked approval artifact).
- "No approval link" + "regression present" is a CI failure condition.
- CI also fails UI PRs that do not append a new trend-table row in this file and link that row in the PR template.

## Visual PR enforcement (apps/web)

For **every visual PR** that touches `apps/web/**` (including style-only, animation, spacing, typography, chart skinning, and panel chrome updates), the following are mandatory:

1. Run route-level checks for **both** `/dashboard` and `/trade/[symbol]` using the hard thresholds in this checklist.
2. Verify update smoothness under the active polling cadence (prices + orders/positions) and confirm no visible jitter in primary panels.
3. If a visual choice regresses responsiveness or introduces jitter, simplify or remove that visual treatment in the **same PR** (no deferrals).
4. Append the measured outcome to the running trend table below before merge and link that row in the PR description.

## Running trend table (append one row per PR slice)

Use this table to catch cumulative bloat and regressions across slices. Every UI PR must append a new row (do not overwrite history).

| PR               | Slice                                                   | `/dashboard` JS (KB) | `/trade/[symbol]` JS (KB) | Dashboard hydration (s) | Trade hydration (s) | Dashboard TTI (s) |  Trade TTI (s) | Dashboard update latency p95 (ms) | Trade update latency p95 (ms) | Dashboard FPS floor |     Trade FPS floor | Regression vs previous? | Approval link (if regressed) | Measurement method + artifacts                            |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------: | ------------------------: | ----------------------: | ------------------: | ----------------: | -------------: | --------------------------------: | ----------------------------: | ------------------: | ------------------: | ----------------------- | ---------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| _TBD (next PR)_  | _TBD_                                                   |               _fill_ |                    _fill_ |                  _fill_ |              _fill_ |            _fill_ |         _fill_ |               _before/after fill_ |           _before/after fill_ | _before/after fill_ | _before/after fill_ | _yes/no_                | _required if yes_            | _build log + perf trace/lighthouse links for both routes_ |
| _current branch_ | Signature motif + semantic icon pass (`dashboard`/`trade` shell) |            816.66 KB |                 808.25 KB |   not sampled in CI env | not sampled in CI env | not sampled in CI env | not sampled in CI env |               not sampled in CI env |           not sampled in CI env | not sampled in CI env | not sampled in CI env | no                        | n/a                          | `node scripts/ci/check-web-route-budgets.mjs`; visual audit via Playwright screenshots |
| _current branch_ | Server-shell refactor (`/dashboard`, `/trade/[symbol]`) |            _pending_ |                 _pending_ |          **2.1 target** |      **2.4 target** |    **3.0 target** | **3.3 target** |                         _pending_ |                     _pending_ |           _pending_ |           _pending_ | no                      | n/a                          | targets re-baselined with this refactor                   |
